# Module 20 Challenge: Supervised Learning
---

<b>Programming language:</b> Python <br />
<b>Package used:</b>sklearn, pandas and numpy <br />
<b>Main script:</b> [credit_risk_classification.ipynb](https://github.com/wingylui/credit-risk-classification/blob/main/credit_risk_classification.ipynb)<br />
<b>Dataset:</b> [lending_data.csv](https://github.com/wingylui/credit-risk-classification/blob/main/Resources/lending_data.csv)

---
## Overview of the Analysis

In this challenge, a model was builded to identify the creditworthiness of borrowers by using a dataset with historical lending activity from a peer-to-peer lending services company. The dataset consist of the detail information of both healthy loan (n = 75,036) and high-risk loan (n = 2,500), including borrower income, interest rate, loan size etc.</br>

To train a model to predict the creditworthiness of borrowers, the dataset was firstly split into texting and training dataset using `train_test_split`; and then, a Logistic Regression model was created by using `LogisticRegression`. As there is a big sample size difference between healthy and high-risk loan, we also tried to create a model with resampled training dataset (using `RandomOverSampler`) and compared its performance to the performance of model trained with original training data.

---
## Results

Using bulleted lists, describe the balanced accuracy scores and the precision and recall scores of all machine learning models.

* Machine Learning Model trained by orignial data:
  * Accuracy : 0.9520
  * Precision : 1.00 for healthy loan and 0.85 for high-risk loan
  * Recall scores : 0.99 for healthy loan and 0.91 for high-risk loan</br>

* Machine Learning Model trained after resampled by ramdom over sampler:
  * Accuracy : 0.9515
  * Precision : 0.92 for healthy loan and 0.99 for high-risk loan
  * Recall scores : 1.00 for healthy loan and 0.91 for high-risk loan

---

## Summary

To conclude, the model trained by resampled training dataset was recommended because the high-risk loan is more important to predict compared to healthy loan. Based on the precision and f1 scores, the performance of model trained by resampled training data is better than the model trained by original dataset. As the result, I will recommend the second model.


---
<b>Score for this assessment:</b> has not been graded yet <br />
<b>References:</b><br />
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

